# ClusterFinder

#A quick, visual way to spot clusters in Gaia DR2 data, using
distance, proper motion, and error cuts!

#Instructions: Get Gaia DR2 Vizier data by querying Gaia DR2 (I/345), typing in some object or coordiantes, picking a search radius (I like 2 deg), selecting only distance rho and J2000 in the Vizier parameters on the left, deselecting all catalogue parameters, selecting Plx, e_Plx, pmRA, e_pmRA, pmDE, e_pmDE, Gmag, e_Gmag, BPmag, e_BPmag, RPmag, e_RPmag, RV, and e_RV, and outputting unlimited values as tab separated values file type. If you know the approximate distance range to your target range, you are encouraged to enter a rough, somewhat generous parallax range into Vizier, as this will greatly cut down on the perhaps irrelevant targets and make the data file way more manageable. The .tsv file should show up in your downloads folder (specify path in Setup below). Trim the file with the viztrim() function. Trimmed file will be saved to your data folder (also specify path in Setup below). Use plotcut() to try different cuts in color-coded distance and proper motions, which you can toggle. You can make cuts in error too, but I usually leave it as-is here. Keep cutting in plotcut() until you see a bunch of stars of roughly one color in distance, proper motion in RA, and proper motion in Dec. Refine the cuts, centering whatever color you see in your one-color blob. The blob may get more colorful again as you make closer cuts, but the random distribution of field stars should diminish. When you're happy with your surviving blob of stars, produce a data file of these stars' Gaia data and create a final plot using the finalcut function. Plot a Gaia DR2 BP-RP color-magnitude diagram of the stars using colmagBR(). Happy hunting!

#If you use this code and find it helpful, please cite Yep & White 2022, in prep.
